= Account Scopper

Account Scopper aims to make conversion from a single account to multi-accounts application as easy as possible.

Simply set your current_account before each request and the scoping will be done on it's own.

== Install

If new to gemcutter first run

  sudo gem install gemcutter
  sudo gemcutter tumble

Then run

  sudo gem install account_scopper
  
If using rails, in your `config/environment.rb`

  config.gem 'account_scopper'

== Usage

To convert your application, you will need to make few changes :

1. Create an Account model and Accounts table
2. Add account_id to your existing models (except Account of course)
3. Define relationship between Account and other models
4. Add the class variable "current_account" to the model Account
5. Initialize Account.current_account before every request (eg: app/controllers/application.rb)

eg: 

# app/model/account.rb

  class Account < ActiveRecord::Base
    cattr_accessor :current_account
  
    has_many :users
  end

# app/model/user.rb

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base  
    belongs_to :account
  end

# app/controllers/application.rb

  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
    before_filter :set_current_account
    # ...

    private
      # Don't forget that @current_account should be properly setup to be an Account object
      # for this purpose you can use the plugin AccountLocation from David Heinemeier Hansson
      def set_current_account
        Account.current_account = @current_account
      end
  end

== What it does

The plugin overwrite few methods from ActiveRecord::Base

To have a better understanding of what it does, the best way is still to look
at the code itself and the tests.

== Helpers

As account_scopper scopes all database requests, `validates_uniqueness_of` will also scope to the current account.

In some cases, you may like to make sure that somethings remain unique to your whole system.

(eg: the user login or email if logging in from a common page for all accounts)

For this purpose, you can use `validates_global_uniqueness_of`. This validations will make sure your attribute is unique over all accounts.

== Warning

If using manually generated database requests like find_by_sql, ... you'll have to do your own scoping

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but
   bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Sebastien Grosjean. See LICENSE for details.
